#summary Frotz Support

This page contains frequently asked questions and miscellaneous help about using Frotz for the iPhone/iPod Touch/iPad.

* Update 11/05/2010 *

Frotz 1.5 is now available in the App Store with the following new features:

 * Improved UI: The interface has been improved and refined, particularly on the iPad.
 * Recently Played Stories: Frotz now keeps track of your most recently played stories at the top of the Story List.
 * Note taking: Swipe left while playing any story to view a note-taking area for that story.
 * View/Edit Story Details: Frotz now has authors, descriptions, and artwork for all built-in stories and can link back to the full IFDB entry for each.
 * Dropbox support: Frotz now supports synchronizing saved games with Dropbox, so you can seamlessly play on multiple devices.
 * Bookmarks in Story Browser: You can now bookmark individual pages in the IFDB browser.
 * More bundled games added from IFDB: Includes an updated IFDB snapshot with more recent well-rated works.
 * Miscellaneous bug fixes: Fixed Bluetooth keyboard support, status line/text resizing bugs, and various other minor bugs.
 * Support launching Frotz as "Open in..." handler for game files as e-mail attachments, Safari downloads, and general file management apps such as Good Reader/Dropbox, etc.

Version 1.5 also includes preliminary support for Glulx games.  This support is considered beta, so no Glulx games are yet bundled with Frotz.  If you want to play Glulx games, you can transfer them to Frotz from your computer using the built-in File Transfer server, or even navigate to the page on IFDB and launch Frotz via the .gblorb/.ulx download link.

----

If you have general comments or feedback about Frotz, you can post it on the [http://groups.google.com/group/ifrotz-discuss Frotz Discussion group], or feel free to send email to *ifrotz at gmail dot com*.   To report a *bug or usability issue* with Frotz, please click [http://code.google.com/p/iphonefrotz/issues/entry here], or go to the Issues tab, click "New Issue", and describe your problem. 
(Note that the bug report system requires you to sign in to GMail.  If you do not have a GMail account, you can report a bug using the above e-mail address.)

----

* FAQ *

<wiki:comment>
  * *Free, $0.99, Free... make up your mind!*
    * *Update 9/19/09* - As promised, since 1.3 has finally been approved, I've just updated Frotz's price to be *FREE* again.   My goal in making Frotz for iPhone is to promote IF to as wide an audience as possible, not to make a profit.  (I have a day job that does me just fine for that.)  The temporary $0.99 price for the past few weeks was to make back the annual iTunes Dev Program fees and provide an incentive for me to persevere through Apple's painful and arbitrary review process.  Working on Frotz is actually fun for me, but not when there's a cloud of uncertainty over it that it might be a complete waste of time due to volatile and uncertain App Store approval policies.
</wiki:comment>
<wiki:comment>
  * *Why isn't Frotz free anymore?   Will it be again?*

   When I signed up to the iPhone Dev program, it was my understanding that the $99 fee was a one time thing.  Turns out it's not; it's an annual fee.  And Apple and its approval process has been so frustrating to deal with that I really feel like giving up on the whole thing.    I just can't help resenting having to pay Apple a hundred bucks a year just to maintain a free app that adds value to the App Store when they treat the developers so badly.  For now, I've decided to charge $0.99 (or local 'tier 1' equivalent) for a little bit so I can earn back the money I've given Apple to be able to put up Frotz in the App Store.  After that, I'll make it free again.  If you just want to try it out and would rather not pay, just wait a couple weeks and it'll be free again.  On the other hand, if you already downloaded Frotz while it was free and want to contribute something, you can *[https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_donations&business=craig%40ni%2ecom&item_name=Frotz%20for%20iPhone%2fiPod%20Touch&no_shipping=0&no_note=1&tax=0&currency_code=USD&lc=US&bn=PP%2dDonationsBF&charset=UTF%2d8 donate via PayPal]*.
    * *Update 9/4/09* I plan on making Frotz free again as soon as Apple approves the newly submitted update.
</wiki:comment>

  * *How can I transfer my own story files (e.g. Infocom files) so Frotz can find them?*

  If you have the Lost Treasures of Infocom, other Infocom game files from antiquity, or your own personal Z-Machine game files, you can use them with Frotz.
      * Starting in Frotz 1.5, you can launch Frotz from a story file mail attachment, or from a generic file management program such as Good Reader or Dropbox.
      * If the file is available on the Internet, although Frotz cannot (read: is not allowed to) download the file directly, you can browser to it in Mobile Safari, and then launch Frotz via the "Open In..." dialog which comes up when tapping a download link.
      * Frotz includes a built-in File Transfer server, so you can easily transfer your own story files, as well as saved games, from pretty much any computer.   To enable the server, press the (i)nfo button in Frotz,  select the "File Transfer" button, and follow the instructions.  Note that you must be connected to a wireless network to use file transfer; it will not work over Edge or 3G.  You can then connect to Frotz using either a web browser or ftp client over the local network.  The web interface is much easier to use and is recommended.
      * Note that Frotz will not look for stories in ZIP files if you transfer them; you should transfer the files individually and make sure they end in a standard suffix such as .z5 or .zblorb.
<wiki:comment>
     * If you have your files on a web server, you can access them using the built-in web interface:
       * In Frotz, go to "Browse IFDB", select the Search icon at the bottom, and type in the URL of your web server.
       * Frotz will download and install if you click on any link ending in .z3, .z4, .z5, .z8, .dat, or .zblorb.
       * You cannot download saved games this way; use the FTP server instead.
       * Frotz can also handle ZIP downloads.  If you click on a ZIP file, Frotz will download it, extract files with the playable extensions and add them to the story list, and then delete the ZIP file.  Again, this doesn't work with FTP, but I plan to add that in a future version.
</wiki:comment>

  * *I'm having problems transferring files with FTP in 1.4.1*
  There seems to be an issue in the latest update that is causing FTP to hang when finishing a transfer, even a directory listing, in the latest release.  I will fix this in the next update.  In any case, I highly recommend using the new web interface for File Transfer instead of FTP, as it is easier to use and more tolerant of local network issues.

  * *What device/OS versions is Frotz compatible with?*
   
   Frotz 1.4.1 works on iPhone or iPod Touch with OS versions 3.0 and later.  (Apologies to any remaining 2.x users out there; it was necessary to drop support for 2.x in order to be able to support iPad with a universal binary.)

<wiki:comment>
  Frotz would be worth nothing without the wealth of great games created by the talented writers and game designers in the IF (Interactive Fiction) community.  I've gotten a lot of enjoyment playing these games over the years, and since I'm not a very good writer, this is my way of giving back.

 * *Can I make a donation?*

  See above for my motivation in making Frotz.   But if you really like Frotz and want to make a donation, you can do so via [https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_donations&business=craig%40ni%2ecom&item_name=Frotz%20for%20iPhone%2fiPod%20Touch&no_shipping=0&no_note=1&tax=0&currency_code=USD&lc=US&bn=PP%2dDonationsBF&charset=UTF%2d8 PayPal].   (Also consider sending thank you emails to the authors of the games you like!) 
</wiki:comment>
  * *How do I save my game?*
  If you press the Home button or answer a call, Frotz will automatically save your game state.  Starting with Frotz 1.4, a separate autosave is kept per game, and the game is autosaved when you switch stories or after a period of inactivity.   You can also manually save your game in progress the old-fashioned way by typing "*`save`*" at the command prompt; this is recommended for some of the harder/more complex games, so you have the ability to backtrack and try alternate solutions.

  Type "*`restore`*" to load a previously saved game.  These commands are available in the shortcut menu that appears when you double tap the command prompt as well.

  * *How do I delete games?*
  When you're not playing a story, the standard Edit button in the top right can be used to go into 'delete' mode.  When a story is active, this is replaced by "Now Playing", but you can still use the swipe gesture to delete a story.
  You can also delete games via the web file transfer interface.  

  * *Performance*
  The performance problems in Frotz 1.0 were fixed in 1.0.1, and further improved in 1.2 and 1.4  If you notice very poor performance, please file a new bug report.  Please do not just file a negative review on iTunes without also filing a bug report so I can have an opportunity to reproduce and fix it.